## Complexity of `synchronize@385-467@./src/pdm/installers/synchronizers.py`

### Cyclomatic complexity number 
Using the formula explained [here](https://radon.readthedocs.io/en/latest/intro.html#cyclomatic-complexity), I calculated the CCN value of the function `synchronize`to be 18. This entails that the function `synchronize` is moderetely complex in terms of code complexity where a CCN of 18 signifies that the function can take 18 different paths through the code. This CCN value of 18 is the same as what one gets if one uses the Lizard library. One thing to take into account is that the CCN value was manually calculated without taking into account exception paths, from e.g. `ASSERT`s, which also seems to be how the Lizard library operates as the CCN values were the same for both methods. The manual calculation of the CCN value was also calculated and double checked to writing out the decision tree for that function based on the method given [here](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=I_9WQgbPmJg&t=2s). 

### Information about the synchronize function
pdm is a package manager and includes several classes of `synchronizers` which take care of synching which packages to install, update or remove from the local environment. The `synchronize` function belongs to one of these classes and is used to decide which packages need to be installed or removed. More specifically the function compares the desired packages with the current working set through a helper function and creates a "to_do" dictionary which logs which packages need to be added, removed or updates in the environment using the keys "add", "remove" or "update". It then splits these tasks into two lists: "sequential" and "parallell" tasks. It then iterates through all the tasks and attempts to complete them. If an installation fails then the function can either be set to continue with the remaining packages or break the installation depending on the users input and preference. All of this together makes the function slightly complex including several different internal sections. The code doesn't include any obvious redundancies and is streamlined to its tasks, however there is potential to split the function into smaller components that can be tested individually making it potentially easier to maintain and understand.