docs/docs/configuration.md, before:

## Available Configurations

The following configuration items can be retrieved and modified by `pdm config` command.

| Config Item                   | Description                                                               | Default Value                                                             | Available in Project | Env var                  |
| ----------------------------- | ------------------------------------------------------------------------- | ------------------------------------------------------------------------- | -------------------- | ------------------------ |
| `build_isolation`             | Isolate the build environment from the project environment                | Yes                                                                       | True                 | `PDM_BUILD_ISOLATION`    |
| `cache_dir`                   | The root directory of cached files                                        | The default cache location on OS                                          | No                   |                          |
| `check_update`                | Check if there is any newer version available                             | True                                                                      | No                   |                          |
| `global_project.fallback`     | Use the global project implicitly if no local project is found            | `False`                                                                   | No                   |                          |
| `global_project.path`         | The path to the global project                                            | `~/.pdm/global-project`                                                   | No                   |                          |
| `install.cache`               | Enable caching of wheel installations                                     | False                                                                     | Yes                  |                          |
| `install.cache_method`        | Specify how to create links to the caches(`symlink` or `pth`)             | `symlink`                                                                 | Yes                  |                          |
| `install.parallel`            | Whether to perform installation and uninstallation in parallel            | `True`                                                                    | Yes                  | `PDM_PARALLEL_INSTALL`   |
| `project_max_depth`           | The max depth to search for a project through the parents                 | 5                                                                         | No                   | `PDM_PROJECT_MAX_DEPTH`  |
| `python.path`                 | The Python interpreter path                                               |                                                                           | Yes                  | `PDM_PYTHON`             |
| `python.use_pyenv`            | Use the pyenv interpreter                                                 | `True`                                                                    | Yes                  |                          |
| `python.use_venv`             | Install packages into the activated venv site packages instead of PEP 582 | `False`                                                                   | Yes                  | `PDM_USE_VENV`           |
| `pypi.url`                    | The URL of PyPI mirror                                                    | Read `index-url` in `pip.conf`, or `https://pypi.org/simple` if not found | Yes                  | `PDM_PYPI_URL`           |
| `pypi.verify_ssl`             | Verify SSL certificate when query PyPI                                    | Read `trusted-hosts` in `pip.conf`, defaults to `True`                    | Yes                  |                          |
| `pypi.json_api`               | Consult PyPI's JSON API for package metadata                              | `False`                                                                   | Yes                  | `PDM_PYPI_JSON_API`      |
| `strategy.save`               | Specify how to save versions when a package is added                      | `compatible`(can be: `exact`, `wildcard`, `minimum`)                      | Yes                  |                          |
| `strategy.update`             | The default strategy for updating packages                                | `reuse`(can be : `eager`)                                                 | Yes                  |                          |
| `strategy.resolve_max_rounds` | Specify the max rounds of resolution process                              | 1000                                                                      | Yes                  | `PDM_RESOLVE_MAX_ROUNDS` |

_If the corresponding env var is set, the value will take precedence over what is saved in the config file._

Commit message:

Support installing the global project to the user site (#987)
* Add config to install global project into user site

* Add news entry

* update news

* ignore coverage

docs/docs/configuration.md, after:

## Available Configurations

The following configuration items can be retrieved and modified by `pdm config` command.

| Config Item                   | Description                                                               | Default Value                                                             | Available in Project | Env var                  |
| ----------------------------- | ------------------------------------------------------------------------- | ------------------------------------------------------------------------- | -------------------- | ------------------------ |
| `build_isolation`             | Isolate the build environment from the project environment                | Yes                                                                       | True                 | `PDM_BUILD_ISOLATION`    |
| `cache_dir`                   | The root directory of cached files                                        | The default cache location on OS                                          | No                   |                          |
| `check_update`                | Check if there is any newer version available                             | True                                                                      | No                   |                          |
| `global_project.fallback`     | Use the global project implicitly if no local project is found            | `False`                                                                   | No                   |                          |
| `global_project.path`         | The path to the global project                                            | `~/.pdm/global-project`                                                   | No                   |                          |
| `global_project.user_site`    | Whther to install to user site                                            | `False`                                                                   | No                   |                          |
| `install.cache`               | Enable caching of wheel installations                                     | False                                                                     | Yes                  |                          |
| `install.cache_method`        | Specify how to create links to the caches(`symlink` or `pth`)             | `symlink`                                                                 | Yes                  |                          |
| `install.parallel`            | Whether to perform installation and uninstallation in parallel            | `True`                                                                    | Yes                  | `PDM_PARALLEL_INSTALL`   |
| `project_max_depth`           | The max depth to search for a project through the parents                 | 5                                                                         | No                   | `PDM_PROJECT_MAX_DEPTH`  |
| `python.path`                 | The Python interpreter path                                               |                                                                           | Yes                  | `PDM_PYTHON`             |
| `python.use_pyenv`            | Use the pyenv interpreter                                                 | `True`                                                                    | Yes                  |                          |
| `python.use_venv`             | Install packages into the activated venv site packages instead of PEP 582 | `False`                                                                   | Yes                  | `PDM_USE_VENV`           |
| `pypi.url`                    | The URL of PyPI mirror                                                    | Read `index-url` in `pip.conf`, or `https://pypi.org/simple` if not found | Yes                  | `PDM_PYPI_URL`           |
| `pypi.verify_ssl`             | Verify SSL certificate when query PyPI                                    | Read `trusted-hosts` in `pip.conf`, defaults to `True`                    | Yes                  |                          |
| `pypi.json_api`               | Consult PyPI's JSON API for package metadata                              | `False`                                                                   | Yes                  | `PDM_PYPI_JSON_API`      |
| `strategy.save`               | Specify how to save versions when a package is added                      | `compatible`(can be: `exact`, `wildcard`, `minimum`)                      | Yes                  |                          |
| `strategy.update`             | The default strategy for updating packages                                | `reuse`(can be : `eager`)                                                 | Yes                  |                          |
| `strategy.resolve_max_rounds` | Specify the max rounds of resolution process                              | 1000                                                                      | Yes                  | `PDM_RESOLVE_MAX_ROUNDS` |

_If the corresponding env var is set, the value will take precedence over what is saved in the config file._
