docs/docs/dependency.md, before:

# Manage dependencies

PDM provides a bunch of handful commands to help manage your project and dependencies.
The following examples are run on Ubuntu 18.04, a few changes must be done if you are using Windows.

## Initialize a project

```console
$ mkdir pdm-test && cd pdm-test
$ pdm init
```

Answer several questions asked by PDM and a `pyproject.toml` will be created for you in the project root:

```toml
[project]
name = "pdm-test"
version = "0.0.0"
description = ""
authors = [
    {name = "Frost Ming", email = "mianghong@gmail.com"}
]
license = {text = "MIT"}
requires-python = ">=3.7"

dependencies = []
dev-dependencies = []
```

If `pyproject.toml` is already present, it will be updated with the metadata. The metadata format follows the
[PEP 621 specification](https://www.python.org/dev/peps/pep-0621/)

For details of the meaning of each field in `pyproject.toml`, please refer to [Project File](pyproject.md).

## Add dependencies

```console
$ pdm add requests
$ pdm add -d pytest
```

`pdm add` can be followed by one or several dependencies, and the dependency specification is described in
[PEP 508](https://www.python.org/dev/peps/pep-0508/).
There are two groups of dependencies: packages will be added to `project.dependencies` by default or `project.dev-dependencies`
if `-d/--dev` option is passed to the `pdm add` command.

PDM also allows extra dependency groups by providing `-s/--section <name>` option, and the dependencies will apear in
`project.optional-dependencies.<name>` in the project file, respectively.

After that, dependencies and sub-dependencies will be resolved properly and installed for you, you can view `pdm.lock` to see
the resolved result of all dependencies.

### Save version specifiers

If the package is given without a version specifier like `pdm add requests`. PDM provides three different behaviors of what version
specifier is saved for the dependency, which is given by `--save-<strategy>`(Assume `2.21.0` is the latest version that can be found
for the dependency):

- `compatible`: Save the compatible version specifier: `>=2.21.0,<3.0.0`(default).
- `exact`: Save the exact version specifier: `==2.21.0`.
- `wildcard`: Don't constrain version and leave the specifier to be wildcard: `*`.

## Update existing dependencies

To update all dependencies in the lock file:

```console
$ pdm update
```

To update the specified package(s):

```console
$ pdm update requests
```

### About update strategy

Similary, PDM also provides 2 different behaviors of updating dependencies and sub-dependencies，
which is given by `--update-<strategy>` option:

- `reuse`: Keep all locked dependencies except for those given in the command line.
- `eager`: Try to lock a newer version of the packages in command line and their recursive sub-dependencies
  and keep other dependencies as they are.

## Remove existing dependencies

To remove existing dependencies from project file and the library directory:

```console
$ pdm remove requests
```

## Synchronize the project packages with lock file

There are two similar commands to do this job with a slight difference:

- `pdm install` will check the lock file and relock if it mismatch with project file, then install.
- `pdm sync` install dependencies in the lock file and will error out if it doesn't exist.
  Besides, `pdm sync` can also remove unneeded packages if `--clean` option is given.

## Show what packages are installed

Similar to `pip list`, you can list all packages installed in the packages directory:

```console
$ pdm list
```

Or show a dependency graph by:

```
$ pdm list --graph
tempenv 0.0.0
└── click 7.0 [ required: <7.0.0,>=6.7 ]
black 19.10b0
├── appdirs 1.4.3 [ required: Any ]
├── attrs 19.3.0 [ required: >=18.1.0 ]
├── click 7.0 [ required: >=6.5 ]
├── pathspec 0.7.0 [ required: <1,>=0.6 ]
├── regex 2020.2.20 [ required: Any ]
├── toml 0.10.0 [ required: >=0.9.4 ]
└── typed-ast 1.4.1 [ required: >=1.4.0 ]
bump2version 1.0.0
```

## Set PyPI index URL

You can specify a PyPI mirror URL by following commands:

```console
$ pdm config set pypi.url https://testpypi.org/simple
```

By default, PDM will read the pip's configuration files to decide the PyPI URL, and fallback
to `https://pypi.org/simple` if none is found.

## Add extra sources of packages

Sometimes your packages may exist on a private repository other than PyPI(and its mirrors).
These sources should be preserved in `pyproject.toml` and shipped with the project in deployment.

```toml
[[tool.pdm.source]]
url = "http://example.com/private/index"
verify_ssl = false  # Don't verify SSL, it is required when you are using `HTTP` or the certificate is trusted.
name = "private"
```

Use the name `name = "pypi"` if you want to override the configurated PyPI index. Note that PDM specific settings
are stored under `tool.pdm` namespace in the `pyproject.toml`.

## Allow prerelease versions to be installed

Include the following setting in `pyproject.toml` to enable:

```toml
[[tool.pdm]]
allow_prereleases = true
```

## Environment variables expansion

For convenience, PDM supports environment variables expansion in the dependency specification under some circumstances:

- Environment variables in the URL auth part will be expanded: `https://${USERNAME}:${PASSWORD}/artifacts.io/Flask-1.1.2.tar.gz`.
  It is also okay to not give the auth part in the URL directly, PDM will ask for them when `-v/--verbose` is on.
- `${PROJECT_ROOT}` will be expanded with the absolute path of the project root, in POSIX style(i.e. forward slash `/`, even on Windows).
  For consistency, URLs that refer to a local path under `${PROJECT_ROOT}` must start with `file:///`(three slashes), e.g.
  `file:///${PROJECT_ROOT}/artifacts/Flask-1.1.2.tar.gz`.

Don't worry about credential leakage, the environment variables will be expanded when needed and kept untouched in the lock file.

Commit message:

docs: mention editable mode installation

docs/docs/dependency.md, after:

# Manage dependencies

PDM provides a bunch of handful commands to help manage your project and dependencies.
The following examples are run on Ubuntu 18.04, a few changes must be done if you are using Windows.

## Initialize a project

```console
$ mkdir pdm-test && cd pdm-test
$ pdm init
```

Answer several questions asked by PDM and a `pyproject.toml` will be created for you in the project root:

```toml
[project]
name = "pdm-test"
version = "0.0.0"
description = ""
authors = [
    {name = "Frost Ming", email = "mianghong@gmail.com"}
]
license = {text = "MIT"}
requires-python = ">=3.7"

dependencies = []
dev-dependencies = []
```

If `pyproject.toml` is already present, it will be updated with the metadata. The metadata format follows the
[PEP 621 specification](https://www.python.org/dev/peps/pep-0621/)

For details of the meaning of each field in `pyproject.toml`, please refer to [Project File](pyproject.md).

## Add dependencies

```console
$ pdm add requests
$ pdm add -d pytest
```

`pdm add` can be followed by one or several dependencies, and the dependency specification is described in
[PEP 508](https://www.python.org/dev/peps/pep-0508/).
There are two groups of dependencies: packages will be added to `project.dependencies` by default or `project.dev-dependencies`
if `-d/--dev` option is passed to the `pdm add` command.

PDM also allows extra dependency groups by providing `-s/--section <name>` option, and the dependencies will apear in
`project.optional-dependencies.<name>` in the project file, respectively.

After that, dependencies and sub-dependencies will be resolved properly and installed for you, you can view `pdm.lock` to see
the resolved result of all dependencies.

Local packages can be installed in [editable mode](https://pip.pypa.io/en/stable/reference/pip_install/#editable-installs)
(just like `pip install -e <local project path>` would) using `pdm add -e/--editable <local project path>`.

### Save version specifiers

If the package is given without a version specifier like `pdm add requests`. PDM provides three different behaviors of what version
specifier is saved for the dependency, which is given by `--save-<strategy>`(Assume `2.21.0` is the latest version that can be found
for the dependency):

- `compatible`: Save the compatible version specifier: `>=2.21.0,<3.0.0`(default).
- `exact`: Save the exact version specifier: `==2.21.0`.
- `wildcard`: Don't constrain version and leave the specifier to be wildcard: `*`.

## Update existing dependencies

To update all dependencies in the lock file:

```console
$ pdm update
```

To update the specified package(s):

```console
$ pdm update requests
```

### About update strategy

Similary, PDM also provides 2 different behaviors of updating dependencies and sub-dependencies，
which is given by `--update-<strategy>` option:

- `reuse`: Keep all locked dependencies except for those given in the command line.
- `eager`: Try to lock a newer version of the packages in command line and their recursive sub-dependencies
  and keep other dependencies as they are.

## Remove existing dependencies

To remove existing dependencies from project file and the library directory:

```console
$ pdm remove requests
```

## Synchronize the project packages with lock file

There are two similar commands to do this job with a slight difference:

- `pdm install` will check the lock file and relock if it mismatch with project file, then install.
- `pdm sync` install dependencies in the lock file and will error out if it doesn't exist.
  Besides, `pdm sync` can also remove unneeded packages if `--clean` option is given.

## Show what packages are installed

Similar to `pip list`, you can list all packages installed in the packages directory:

```console
$ pdm list
```

Or show a dependency graph by:

```
$ pdm list --graph
tempenv 0.0.0
└── click 7.0 [ required: <7.0.0,>=6.7 ]
black 19.10b0
├── appdirs 1.4.3 [ required: Any ]
├── attrs 19.3.0 [ required: >=18.1.0 ]
├── click 7.0 [ required: >=6.5 ]
├── pathspec 0.7.0 [ required: <1,>=0.6 ]
├── regex 2020.2.20 [ required: Any ]
├── toml 0.10.0 [ required: >=0.9.4 ]
└── typed-ast 1.4.1 [ required: >=1.4.0 ]
bump2version 1.0.0
```

## Set PyPI index URL

You can specify a PyPI mirror URL by following commands:

```console
$ pdm config set pypi.url https://testpypi.org/simple
```

By default, PDM will read the pip's configuration files to decide the PyPI URL, and fallback
to `https://pypi.org/simple` if none is found.

## Add extra sources of packages

Sometimes your packages may exist on a private repository other than PyPI(and its mirrors).
These sources should be preserved in `pyproject.toml` and shipped with the project in deployment.

```toml
[[tool.pdm.source]]
url = "http://example.com/private/index"
verify_ssl = false  # Don't verify SSL, it is required when you are using `HTTP` or the certificate is trusted.
name = "private"
```

Use the name `name = "pypi"` if you want to override the configurated PyPI index. Note that PDM specific settings
are stored under `tool.pdm` namespace in the `pyproject.toml`.

## Allow prerelease versions to be installed

Include the following setting in `pyproject.toml` to enable:

```toml
[[tool.pdm]]
allow_prereleases = true
```

## Environment variables expansion

For convenience, PDM supports environment variables expansion in the dependency specification under some circumstances:

- Environment variables in the URL auth part will be expanded: `https://${USERNAME}:${PASSWORD}/artifacts.io/Flask-1.1.2.tar.gz`.
  It is also okay to not give the auth part in the URL directly, PDM will ask for them when `-v/--verbose` is on.
- `${PROJECT_ROOT}` will be expanded with the absolute path of the project root, in POSIX style(i.e. forward slash `/`, even on Windows).
  For consistency, URLs that refer to a local path under `${PROJECT_ROOT}` must start with `file:///`(three slashes), e.g.
  `file:///${PROJECT_ROOT}/artifacts/Flask-1.1.2.tar.gz`.

Don't worry about credential leakage, the environment variables will be expanded when needed and kept untouched in the lock file.
